Add draft of lsif-go blog post (#1410)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2020/optimizing-a-code-intelligence-indexer.md

    <br /><br />
    The next day Shlemiel only gets 150 yards done. "Well, that’s not nearly as good as yesterday, but you’re still a fast worker. 150 yards is respectable," and pays him a kopeck.
    <br /> <br />
    The next day Shlemiel paints 30 yards of the road. "Only 30!" shouts his boss. "That’s unacceptable! On the first day you did ten times that much work! What’s going on?"
    <br /><br />
    "I can’t help it," says Shlemiel. "Every day I get farther and farther away from the paint can!"
  </blockquote>
</div>

Shlemiel and lsif-go v0.9.0 both spent a lot of time needlessly re-executing the same operations in a way that did not help progress the task. Because an operation of non-constant cost was snuck into the lower levels of the process - into a method that was itself called a non-constant number of times - they both found themselves in a process that is [accidentally quadratic](https://accidentallyquadratic.tumblr.com/).

lsif-go v0.9.0's walk to the paint can was actually a [traversal of an abstract syntax tree](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/blob/1ac006466179176711e61e89dbf136d49e9fab34/internal/index/helper.go#L241).

> This particular line of code looks fairly innocuous, but only without considering the context from which the enclosing function is called: `findComments` is called on **every** identifier being indexed. This function is called for every type definition, every field, every function, every parameter, every local variable, and every type. Every identifier causes another traversal of the tree. Again and again, lsif-go v0.9.0 would trace the same set of edges only find itself at a node on a _slightly_ path from a previous traversal.

Reviewer: > find itself at a node on a slightly path from a previous traversal.

is this a typo?

Author: Yup

Alternative solutions here require pushing back tasks whose dependencies have not yet been met, pre-determining a dependency graph, or recursively submitting duplicate work to the queue. Each of these solutions have a down side and decrease code clarity.

#### You have to choose the right level of work to parallelize

You can't throw work into a parallel executor and guarantee that your program runs faster. In fact, the first few attempts at parallelizing lsif-go wasn't fruitful because we tried to index each _file_ in parallel rather than each _package_. The cost of indexing a single file was low enough that the overhead of setting up the goroutines and queueing the work negated any benefit of executing the work in multiple cores.

The cost of indexing an entire package is high enough that there is obvious, tangible benefit of indexing multiple packages in different cores. This benefit far outweighs the any of the setup and queueing overhead.

<div class="no-shadow">

>   <img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.19/lsif-go-parallel.svg" alt="Parallelism diagram">

Reviewer 2: use https://sourcegraphstatic.com urls instead of storage.googleapis.com because the latter is blocked by many ad blockers (https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/product_documentation#naming-and-linking-documentation-pages)

## Reviewing results

The following charts show the comparison between the last three versions of the indexer: v0.9.0, v0.10.0, and v1.0.0.

<div class="no-shadow">
  <img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.19/lsif-go-perf-3.png" alt="performance comparison">
  <img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.19/lsif-go-perf-2.png" alt="performance comparison">
  <img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.19/lsif-go-perf-1.png" alt="performance comparison">
</div>

We plan to continue on this path of performance improvements. This is just the latest chapter in our continuing effort to bring fast, precise code navigation to every language, every codebase, and every programmer. If you thought this post was interesting or valuable, we'd appreciate it if you'd share it with others!

> To read another optimization story similar to this one, see our previous discussion about optimizing the [code intelligence backend](http://localhost:8000/blog/optimizing-a-code-intel-backend/), which concentrates on reducing the latency of the other half of the system that contributes to delays in code intelligence.

Reviewer 2: remove localhost url, just use relative path `/blog/whatever`

Author: 🤦

---
title: "Optimizing a code intelligence indexer"
author: Eric Fritz
authorUrl: https://eric-fritz.com
publishDate: 2020-08-17T08:00-07:00
tags: [blog]
slug: optimizing-a-code-intel-indexer
heroImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/lsif-go/lsif-go-improvements.png
published: true
---

On the [code intelligence team](https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/code-intelligence) at Sourcegraph, we want you to always have precise and up-to-date hovers, definitions, and references when you're browsing and reviewing unfamiliar code, even on very large monorepos.

![Cross-repository jump to definition](https://sourcegraphstatic.com/precise-xrepo-j2d.gif)

> We call our key (internal) metric **time to intelligence** (TTI), which covers the time it takes to:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To track indexing performance we use an important internal key metric called **Time To Intelligence** (TTI), which covers the time it takes to:
```

> Sourcegraph is used by companies all over the repository number and size spectrum. Some companies employ a microservice approach. For us, that's easy mode. Small repositories are easy and generally fast _enough_ to index even with an LSIF indexer that performs poorly as code size grows. Other companies employ a monorepo approach. This is where the challenge lies for us - but we've made great strides with the recent [1.0 release](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0) of [lsif-go](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go).

Reviewer 2: It's not clear to me that "microservice" means "small repos". You can have a monorepo with microservices.

Instead of "employ a (microservice/monorepo) approach", say "have many smaller repositories" vs "have one big monorepo" for simplicity.

Be precise about what the "challenge" is: it's a performance challenge.

Author: Updated.

1. Push a new commit to a branch on your repository
1. Trigger a CI job to index the code of that commit
1. Upload the resulting index to your Sourcegraph instance
1. Process the uploaded index
1. Use the processed index to provide up-to-date code intelligence

> Sourcegraph is used by companies all over the repository number and size spectrum. Some companies employ a microservice approach. For us, that's easy mode. Small repositories are easy and generally fast _enough_ to index even with an indexer that becomes slow as code size grows. Other companies employ a monorepo approach. This is where the challenge lies for us - but we've made great strides with the recent [1.0 release](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0) of [lsif-go](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go).

Reviewer 3: I think this should be the opening paragraph, as it provide a broad background story of the challenges we have to address, then followed by what the aim of the code intel team is specifically:

"On the [code intelligence team](https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/code-intelligence) at Sourcegraph, we want you to always have precise and up-to-date hovers, definitions, and references when you're browsing and reviewing unfamiliar code, even on very large monorepos."

Author: So the suggestion is to just flip the order?

Reviewer 3: No, just to move paragraph at line 24 to be opening paragraph. Keep the rest as is (list etc).

> Now, how well do we index Go at scale?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now let's take a look at how well we are indexing Go at scale using the TTI metric as our indicator:
```

Author: The problem with this suggestion is that we're not measuring all of TTI here, only the indexing portion.

Reviewer 3: What role does TTI play in this optimization then?

Author: We're optimizing it, but the measurements here are only for the indexing portion.

* Previously, it took nearly **8 minutes** to index the [Go AWS SDK](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go); it now takes only **24 seconds**.
* Previously, it took nearly **7 hours** to index 56 million lines of code; it now takes under **20 minutes**.

**[The indexer takes only 5% of the time it used to.](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/blob/master/BENCHMARK.md)**

Indexing speed is _so_ important for code bases undergoing constant change. Stale, hours-old code intelligence on a monorepo at scale is about as useful as using a map of Pangea to find your way home. This is why the code intelligence team is dedicated to [increasing the efficiency of every part of the stack](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/optimizing-a-code-intel-backend) to make sure your map of the code is always accurate.

## The optimization story

> An LSIF indexer is conceptually simple. It reads source code, constructs an in-memory representation of the program structure, resolves symbol names, then outputs a JSON-encoded graph representation of those symbols. Go provides [tooling](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools/go/packages?tab=doc) to parse and analyze Go source code in the standard library, leaving only the last stage for us to optimize.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A language indexer tool is conceptually simple. It reads source code, constructs an in-memory representation of the program structure, resolves symbol names, then generates a JSON-encoded graph representation of those symbols using [LSIF](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsif/0.4.0/specification/). Go provides [tooling](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/tools/go/packages?tab=doc) to parse and analyze Go source code in the standard library, leaving only the last stage for us to optimize.
```

---
title: "Optimizing a code intelligence indexer"
author: Eric Fritz
authorUrl: https://eric-fritz.com
publishDate: 2020-08-17T08:00-07:00
tags: [blog]
slug: optimizing-a-code-intel-indexer
heroImage: https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/lsif-go/lsif-go-improvements.png
published: true
---

> We've finally tagged the [one-point-oh release](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0) of [lsif-go](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go) boasting impressive speed improvements that brings intelligence to your Go code faster than ever before.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We've finally tagged the [one-point-oh release](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0) of [lsif-go](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go), boasting impressive speed improvements that bring intelligence to your Go code faster than ever before.
```

> We've finally tagged the [one-point-oh release](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0) of [lsif-go](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go), boasting impressive speed improvements that bring intelligence to your Go code faster than ever before.

Reviewer 2: My interpretation is that this post intends to communicate 2 things:

- "Sourcegraph code intelligence is fast on big repos" to people with big repos
- "We are thoughtful, smart devs" to other devs (broad audience)

Is that right? I think those are great things to communicate. I would recommend changing the intro to remove the mention of tagging the release and other details that are irrelevant (IMO) to these points, and just focus on nailing the 2 points above. Something like this for the intro:

```
On the [code intelligence team](handbook-link) at Sourcegraph, we want you to always have precise and up-to-date hovers, definitions, and references when you're browsing and reviewing unfamiliar code, even on very large monorepos.

We call our key (internal) metric **time to code intelligence** (TTCI) [also link to this in the handbook, so you bolster its credibility as a metric], which means the time it takes to: (phrasing TBD)

1. Push a new commit to a branch on your repository
1. (List all other steps that usually occur, such as CI running and uploading)
1. Code intelligence is ready for use on Sourcegraph

(Some sentence about how companies with all kinds of codebases and repo sizes use Sourcegraph and how that's given us a lot of input.) We've made this much faster lately. Here are some specific performance improvements we made (and how we identified them as high-priority).

```

Notes:

- Precisely defining the `time to intelligence` metric will help establish our claim to being `thoughtful, smart devs`. An imprecise definition will cause us to lose credibility.
- Mentioning specific versions makes the blog post seem ephemeral. The contents and the message are timeless, and I don't want to ruin that positive characteristic.

Author: Noted and integrating.

We currently don't have a formal definition for TTI in the handbook (but we do have it marked as one of formal team goals that @aidaeology's taking point on https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/code-intelligence).

> The code intelligence is hard at work trying to bring the _time to intelligence_ - the time between a commit and useful navigation of that code in your Sourcegraph instance - as close to zero as possible. We want your code to always have up-to-date precise code intelligence on the newest commits to help aid you when browsing and reviewing unfamiliar code. Indexing speed is a _huge_ part of this, and we've made a great leap here.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The code intelligence is hard at work trying to bring the _time to intelligence_ (the time between pushing your code to upstream and when you can precisely navigate that code on Sourcegraph) as close to zero as possible. We want your code to always have precise and up-to-date code intelligence when you're browsing and reviewing unfamiliar code. Indexing speed is a huge part of this, and we've made a great leap here.
```

Author: Caught another error in here - updated the suggestion to reflect that.

As an illustrative example, checkout the visual difference between indexing our [main repository](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph) with lsif-go v0.9 (above) and indexing it with lsif-go v1.0 (below).

> [![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/pKTby2O4N1KC9RqXBkOO7JgBw.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/pKTby2O4N1KC9RqXBkOO7JgBw)

Reviewer 4: It would be neat to be able to play these side-by-side. Not a blocker.

Author: I had tried doing this but wasn't sure how - they also don't autoplay. I originally had gif recordings but am not gifted though to figure out how to combine them without paying Adobe a subscription to the creative suite. If anyone has suggestions on _how_ to do this I'll spend the time.

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/eEmncpfVa40yqhoB2ta0C8leR.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/eEmncpfVa40yqhoB2ta0C8leR)

### Performance comparison

Unfortunately, indexing our own code isn't so worthy of celebration. It's a medium-sized repository home to 258k lines of Go code. The old version of the indexer did a fine job at this small scale, even with its many inefficiencies.

![a repo for ants?](https://i.imgflip.com/4bs5q7.jpg)

What we need to do is go **big**.

> Our goal is to _efficiently_ bring code intelligence to the massive engineering teams with a mind-boggling amount of code and a breathtaking frequency of updates to that code. Our goal is to help humans effectively navigate code bases with a constantly changing topology so they can be sure of their footing and concentrate on the task at hand.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Our goal is to bring code intelligence to the massive engineering teams with a mind-boggling amount of code and a breathtaking frequency of updates to that code. Our goal is to help humans effectively navigate code bases with a constantly changing topology so they can be sure of their footing and concentrate on the task at hand.
```

(Use adverbs sparingly.)

So how do we perform at scale? In v0.9, it took around 7 1/2 minutes to index the [Go AWS SDK](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go); in v1.0, it takes 24 seconds. In v0.9, it took nearly 7 hours to index 56 million lines of code; in v1.0, it takes under 20 minutes. See [below](#reviewing-results) for a graphical comparison between the last three versions of the indexer.

> **[The indexer takes only 5% of the time it used to.](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/tree/master/benchmark.md)**

Author: Ah I had capitalized the file.

> Indexing speed is _so_ important for code bases undergoing constant change. Stale, hours-old code intelligence on a monorepo at scale is about as useful as using a map of Pangea to find your way home. This is why the code intelligence team is dedicated to [increasing the efficiency of every part of the stack](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/optimizing-a-code-intel-backend) to make sure your maps are always accurate.

Author: I'd stand by my statement to say that on pull requests, which is code that is _by definition_ new to the reviewer, stale code intelligence (which would be trigger search-based code intelligence in our case) is not nearly as useful as a precise index over the new code and how it interacts with itself/existing code.

The [solution](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/pull/66) we implemented instead performs a single walk of the AST of each file and caches the comments attached to each identifier node along the way. Then each node can simply look up its own comment in a shared, pre-populated cache during the relevant indexing step. This was the only major change between v0.9.0 and v0.10.0, and it cut indexing time of the Go AWS SDK by 4x.

### Where was v0.10.0 spending all its time?

After such a large leap in performance we hang up our hat proudly and call it a day, right?

**No!** We keep going to find out how fast this thing can get.

![Wanna see me do it again?](https://i.imgflip.com/4bw5m9.jpg)

> #### Stop making the same mistakes

Author: Merged, will rework the text once I remove references to specific versions.

It turns out that lsif-go v0.10.0 was _still_ traversing syntax trees multiple times in order to generate a unique moniker identifier for symbols. For example, keeping the spirit of the examples above:

<p class="text-center">
  <code class="language-text">github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/service/eks:CreateClusterInput.ResourcesVpcConfig</code>
</p>

These AST traversals were also [easy enough to optimize](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/pull/77). While performing the walk of the AST to cache comments attached to nodes, we also keep track of the qualified names on the path down to a node (names of types containing fields, receiver types attached to functions) and cache those.

#### Stop looking at the stuff that doesn't matter

> We've greatly reduced the number of AST traversals that we perform, but that doesn't mean that the traversals we're still doing are efficient. When we traverse an AST to gather comments and construct monikers, we do so only for nodes that define a symbol (symbols that are not a definition will use the hover text and moniker of the symbol they reference).

Author: It described before. I've added a sentence to make it more obvious this is just necessary information.

Because the list of positions are ordered, we can use binary search to efficiently determine which of these three conditions are true for a node. But efficient does not equate to _most efficient_. Each layer of the tree received the same list of positions, meaning that the binary search operation for every node had the same cost.

It is [much more efficient](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go/pull/84) to instead pass along only the positions which can match a subtree. This change means that the binary search for a node decreases as its depth increases: the leaves of the tree have to search a much smaller list. Because the number of nodes in the tree (generally) increases with depth, this cost savings is compounded.

#### Don't do lots of little work; do little lots of work

An LSIF indexer is a tool that spits out an index file. The index file is generally larger than input source code due to making the implicit definition and reference relationships explicit. It stands to reason that the performance of the indexer will eventually be dependent on the performance of formatting the output and writing to disk.

> The LSIF index file is formatted as sequence of newline-separated JSON elements. These elements are generally pretty small with the exception of hover content vertexes and contains edges adjacent to large documents. From a dump of 14 million lines, the median line contained only 91 characters (a line with 48 characters being the smallest).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The LSIF index file is formatted as sequence of newline-separated JSON elements. These elements are generally pretty small with the exception of hover content vertices and contains edges adjacent to large documents. From a dump of 14 million lines, the median line contained only 91 characters (a line with 48 characters being the smallest).
```

> Unfortunately, we were writing each line to an unbuffered file. Without a buffer, writing each element requires a [syscsall](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/write.2.html) to commit a small amount of data to the target file. With a [buffer](https://hashrocket.com/blog/posts/go-performance-observations#buffered-io), the writes are batched so that 4096 characters are written to disk at a time. This reduces the number of syscalls, and therefore number of userland/kernel context switches, by 98%.

Reviewer 5: you sure you want to confess to that :-) ?

Author: If it stops me or another developer from doing it again in the future, then yes!

We did this by introducing a mutex around each shared map and slice that can be read from and written to concurrently. We use [double-checked locking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-checked_locking) where exclusive access to the datastructure for writing is required:

```go
func ensureValue(key string, f func() string) string {
    // fast path
    mutex.RLock()
    value, ok := m[key]
    mutex.RUnlock()
    if !ok {
        return value
    }

    // slow path
    mutex.Lock()
    defer mutex.Unlock()

    if value, ok := m[key]; ok{
        return value
    }

    // note: f() can be moved outside of critical
    // section if it's expensive/side-effect free
    value = f()
    m[key] = value
    return value
}
```

This pattern first acquires a cheap read lock on `mutex` and checks the likely condition that the data has already been cached in the shared map `m`. If the value exists, it can be returned. Otherwise, a value needs to be generated and written to the shared map for later readers. In order to handle the race condition between releasing the read lock and acquiring the write lock, we check for the value in the map again after exclusive access has been acquired.

> Each shared datastructure has its own mutex so that contention from one resource does not bleed into a less-contended resource. However, it's easy to take this pattern too far. We have a shared two-layer hierarchical map whose access is protected by a [striped mutex](https://guava.dev/releases/19.0/api/docs/com/google/common/util/concurrent/Striped.html). A striped mutex is basically an array of shared mutexes, where a resource `r` is locked if the mutex at index `hash(r)` is locked (modulo the configured number of mutexes). This is a good middle-ground between having one mutex for a highly contended resource, and having `n` distinct mutexes for a map with `n` keys. The former will decrease the throughput of of the indexer as every routine is waiting on the same lock, and the latter will blow up memory usage, as `n` can be very large even for relatively small code bases.

Author: Reworked this section.

> ##### You have to be sure that there are no hidden data dependencies

Reviewer 4: Is this is a problem introduced by parallelization, or a problem that is independent of parallelization? It isn't clear initially, but after reading through, it seems like it is related to parallelization, so mention that at the beginning as a segue. It may also make sense to group all the parallelization-related sections into a larger super-section titled "Parallelization" so this grouping is clear to the reader.

When we index references, we assume that our map of definitions is already populated. Our solution is to parallelize the workload in distinct steps (first index all definitions, then index all references), where each step can rely on data calculated by hte previous step which was parallelized individually.

Alternative solutions here require pushing back tasks whose dependencies have not yet been met, pre-determining a dependency graph, or recursively submitting duplicate work to the queue. Each of these solutions have a down side and decrease code clarity.

##### You have to choose the right level of work to parallelize

> You can't throw work into a parallel executor and guarantee that your program runs faster. In fact, the first few attempts at parallelizing lsif-go wasn't fruitful because we tried to index each _file_ in parallel rather than each _package_. The cost of indexing a single file was low enough that the overhead of setting up the goroutines and queueing the work negated any benefit of executing the work in multiple cores.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can't throw work into a parallel executor and guarantee that your program runs faster. In fact, the first few attempts at parallelizing lsif-go weren't fruitful because we tried to index each _file_ in parallel rather than each _package_. The cost of indexing a single file was low enough that the overhead of setting up the goroutines and queueing the work negated any benefit of executing the work in multiple cores.
```

The cost of indexing an entire package is high enough that there is obvious, tangible benefit of indexing multiple packages in different cores. This benefit far outweighs the any of the setup and queueing overhead.

<div class="no-shadow">
  <img src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/lsif-go/lsif-go-parallel.svg" alt="Parallelism diagram">
</div>

> In lsif-go v1.0.0, all writes to the file are synchronized by a single goroutine controlling the output buffer. This ensures that for any single goroutine emitting elements, the order of the elements they emit will hit disk in the same order. This is important as LSIF requires that edges refer only to a vertex that has already been indexed.r

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In lsif-go v1.0.0, all writes to the file are synchronized by a single goroutine controlling the output buffer. This ensures that for any single goroutine emitting elements, the order of the elements they emit will hit disk in the same order. This is important as LSIF requires that edges refer only to a vertex that has already been indexed.
```

> Each non-trivial task is broken into package-level work, queued into a channel, and then distributed over a number of goroutines (that scales depending on the number of physical cores on the indexing machine). A task finishes once the entire input channel has been consumed and each worker goroutines has exited. Each task makes a fresh set of goroutines.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Each non-trivial task is broken into package-level work, queued into a channel, and then distributed over a number of goroutines (that scales depending on the number of physical cores on the indexing machine). A task finishes once the entire input channel has been consumed and each worker goroutine has exited. Each task makes a fresh set of goroutines.
```

## Reviewing results

The following charts show the comparison between the last three versions of the indexer: v0.9.0, v0.10.0, and v1.0.0.

> <div class="no-shadow">

Reviewer 4: What's the reason for showing three charts here? Doesn't the first chart show a superset of what the other 2 charts show?

Author: Yes but if you want to actually see the performance difference we'd need to zoom in to the other ones. The third might be overkill as it doesn't show a comparison, just performance, but I think the first two show a nice "we quadruped performance between 0.9 and 0.10" and a "we quadrupled performance again between 0.10 and 1.0".

Author: I'll update it to reflect that we don't care about tagged versions.

  <img src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/lsif-go/lsif-go-perf-3.png" alt="performance comparison">
  <img src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/lsif-go/lsif-go-perf-2.png" alt="performance comparison">
  <img src="https://sourcegraphstatic.com/blog/lsif-go/lsif-go-perf-1.png" alt="performance comparison">
</div>

We plan to continue on this path of performance improvements. This is just the latest chapter in our continuing effort to bring fast, precise code navigation to every language, every codebase, and every programmer. If you thought this post was interesting or valuable, we'd appreciate it if you'd share it with others!

> To read another optimization story similar to this one, see our previous discussion about optimizing the [code intelligence backend](/blog/optimizing-a-code-intel-backend/), which concentrates on reducing the latency of the other half of the system that contributes to delays in code intelligence.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To read another optimization story similar to this one, see our previous discussion about optimizing the [code intelligence backend](/blog/optimizing-a-code-intel-backend/), which concentrates on reducing the latency of the part of the code intelligence indexing system that receives the data emitted by LSIF emitters like lsif-go.
```
